# Rules of thumb when writing a Wayland plugin

## Client extension object lifetime management

When constructing a client extension with `QWaylandClientExtensionTemplate`,
use automated deletion routines provided by the generated code:

Pass the autogenerated `destroy()` method into the second argument of the
template:

```cpp
class KisWaylandAPIColorManager
    : public QWaylandClientExtensionTemplate<KisWaylandAPIColorManager,
                                             // \|/ pass the destructor here!
                                             &QtWayland::wp_color_manager_v1::destroy>
    , public QtWayland::wp_color_manager_v1
{
};
```

This will generate a code that performs two things for you:

1) Destruction of the Wayland's C-style object in the destructor of
   the C++-object

2) Destruction of the Wayland's C-style object when the extenstion
   gets inactive, i.e. when the connection is lost.

## Active and non-active states

Wayland protocol is a "connection" to the compositor, which means that this
connection may be lost sometimes (e.g. when the compositor crashes). Theoretically,
we should expose this state on the API level, but we don't do that. Instead we
expose ready and non-ready states (see below).

## Ready and non-ready states

The Wayland protocol is asyncronous. It means thet when we request some
information from the compositor we do not get the reply immediately. Instead
we should wait untit the compositor sends us an event with the reply.

For this reason we added two states to the plugin API. The interface may be
"ready" (i.e. all information is available right away) or "non-ready". The
"non-ready" state also covers the case when the connection is lost and
the API is in non-active state.

## Handling of the disconnection signal

When the connection to the compositor is lost (i.e. it crashed and got restarted),
we should handle that and recreate all the objects related to our extension.

Basically, you need to handle `QWaylandClientExtensionTemplate::activeChanged`
signal, destroy all the object and turn the object into "non-ready" mode.

See an example in `KisWaylandAPIColorManager`:

```cpp
KisWaylandAPIColorManager::KisWaylandAPIColorManager()
    : QWaylandClientExtensionTemplate(1)
{
    connect(this, &QWaylandClientExtensionTemplate::activeChanged, this, [this] {
        if (!isActive()) {
            m_supportedFeatures.clear();
            m_supportedIntents.clear();
            m_supportedPrimariesNamed.clear();
            m_supportedTransferFunctionsNamed.clear();
            if (m_isReady) {
                m_isReady = false;
                Q_EMIT sigReadyChanged(m_isReady);
            }
        }
    });
}
```

To test if your app handles the disconnection signal correctly just run:

```bash
kwin_wayland --replace
```

Your app should not die :)

**WARNING:** it will kill all your XWayland apps (and wayland-native apps
that handle this case incorrectly).